Your time's up!
Everyone, put your pencils
down now. I will come around
to collect your tests.
What you did was perfect,
Denki! You really saved my
butt back there!
Sure! But if you hadn't done
such a good job distracting
Sensei...
then I wouldn't have been
able to steal the test questions
so easily.
Security here is pretty lax, but
there's still almost always
someone in the teachers' lounge.
Uh, so is that what you
guys were up to before? But
isn't that just cheating?
Come on, are you serious,
Boruto?
Remember what Shino Sensei
said to us a week ago?
Be sure to review the exam
questions and figure out your
strategy.
He practically told us to do
it!
Yeah, basically he said that it
was a part of the test...
to steal the questions from the
teachers' lounge, right?
(Shikadai) They're testing our
skills as ninja in collecting
intel.
But it is a drag.
Is that what he meant?! I
guess I shoulda been
listening.
Uh, are you gonna be okay,
Boruto?
You didn't do anything
to get ready for the exam,
right?
Don't worry, it'll be easy!
I don't really even need to
bother studying for a test
like that one.
You are awesome, Boruto!
But I am not going to lose to
you.
I am going to go all out on
the practical application exam
tomorrow!
Uh. But now I'm starting to
get nervous about it.
I wonder what the
practical exam'll be like
exactly?
It's probably gonna be really
tough!
There's no need to get so
scared, guys! After all, it's
just a test!
It's probably not going to be
that hard, anyway!
Let's just wrap this up so we
can get on with becoming
ninja, together!
[chewing]
Hm.
Boruto got a perfect score,
huh? Boy, he's quite a kid.
Lord Sixth! When did you?!
But, I believe he's become a bit
too confident.
Hmph!
Coordinated Light Formation!
[grunting]
Aww, what?!
So, what are you trying to do?
Oh, I was just trying to test
out my Sealing Jutsu.
You don't have enough chakra
built up to get it to work.
I guess I'm not gonna be able
to use it during a real
battle, then.
Denki! Why you!
Sorry, Iwabe! I didn't mean
anything by it!
(Shino) You all seem pretty
relaxed.
Huh?
Uh, hey, Shino Sensei!
I'm going to explain the rules
for the final practical
application exam.
First, all of you tie your
white bandanas around your
foreheads.
(Shino) In the exam, these will
represent your life.
If yours is taken, you fail.
Consider this an actual combat
situation.
The arena is this entire forest.
The enemy that you're going to
be battling against is us.
And the time limit is the next
twenty‐four hours.
By the way, this target that
we're all wearing is just like
your bandanas.
If you destroy it, it's like
you've defeated us, and we
won't be able to fight back.
No way! We gotta go up against
Shino Sensei and the others?
This'll be so easy!
But don't we have to be
careful about Konohamaru
Sensei?
Isn't he aiming to become
Hokage?
Oh, really? Then this is even
less of a big deal!
Listen, these bandanas and
targets are only going to get
in the way.
I say that what we should do is
just fight like normal people!
Then we wouldn't be able to
use discretion, would we?
It's Lord Sixth!
[gasps]
Old Man Kakashi?!
Hey, Boruto!
Call me Lord Sixth when we're
with the others. I know it's
annoying, but still.
Uh, sure.
But what are you even doing
out here, old man Lord Sixth?
What am I doing?
Well, I'm going to be the
proctor for the test.
Huh?!
Lord Sixth is gonna be the
proctor?!
You've gotta be kidding.
Oh, so you came to confirm how
strong I am, huh?
So awesome! The Hidden Leaf's
famous child genius who became
a jonin at age twelve!
The Sixth Hokage, who forged
peace after the Great Ninja
War, is our proctor?!
I just know this is gonna turn
out to be a drag.
Just calm down, you guys! It's
really no big deal!
I mean, old man Kakashi's
already retired!
As I said, call me Lord Sixth.
(Boruto) We know all about him.
He's not our enemy!
I know all about you guys, as
well.
Oh, you do, huh? What do you
know about us?
I know that all of you are a
bunch of troublemakers.
(Kakashi) That's the whole
reason why I became the proctor
for this test.
Because we can't allow
troublemakers to become shinobi.
Huh?
I'll say it again: we don't
need to have troublemakers as
Leaf shinobi.
I'll be watching. And I'll also
be deciding whether you have
what it takes...
to become a worthy shinobi or
not.
Let's see. First...
(Kakashi) If you can take this
bell away from me, you'll pass.
How's that sound?
By the way, headbands and
targets are only for clarifying
our decisions, if need be.
We wouldn't want to go
overboard and end up killing
someone, right?
[gasps]
This sounds like a lot of fun.
It'll give us the perfect
chance to show you just what
we're made of!
Um. I'd like to ask one question
if I could. There's one bell for
each participant, right?
Nope.
What?!
I'm saying that all there is,
is just this one bell.
Hold on a second! Does that mean
that you're only gonna pass one
person out of all of us?!
Well, you can always quit if you
don't like it. Although that
would be an automatic fail.
(Kakashi) In this day and age,
we have enough personnel to fill
all our needs.
It's not a big deal if no one
passes.
[gasps]
How can you do something that
messed up?!
(Shino) What's messed up about
it?
Hmm?
The reason is, because in an
actual battle...
there's no way to predict just
what you're going to come up
against.
There's something very important
that you mustn't forget.
In the world that you're all
striving to enter, one single
mistake can mean death.
That's the harsh truth.
The Sensei are really scaring
me now.
The three of us will be acting
as Lord Sixth's bodyguards.
Which means in order to get
to Lord Sixth, you're going to
have to get through us first.
And we don't plan on making it
easy for you.
Well, there you have it. We're
not going to hold back, either.
So come at us with the intent to
kill.
All right, you guys. Show us
how strong your resolve is.
Are you sure about what you
just said?
Of course. Absolutely.
Because there's no way that
I'd ever allow myself to lose
to immature school kids...
who just pal around and refuse
to grow up.
[grunts]
You have twenty‐four hours
starting now. On your mark.
No need for that!
(Kakashi) Hm?
'Cause I'll settle this right
now!
[gasps]
Good grief! Like father, like
son. So impatient!
Never mind. We start now.
[gasps]
So, what should we do?!
They're mocking us!
Wait! Come back here!
[gasps]
We don't pal around. I mean,
come on!
You're not getting away!
[sighs]
I'm gonna become a ninja this
year, I'm sure of it!
I'm gonna make it, too!
There's no way that we'll
lose!
You two really make a great
couple of rivals for me! I am
not going to lose either!
[determined yell]
Hm? [chuckles]
[grunts]
Enko, they're getting ahead of
us. Aren't we gonna go after
them?
Nice try! You wanna use Iwabe
and the others as a diversion.
You're just looking to find a
way to preserve your energy!
Well, it's not gonna work on me,
Houki!
What did you say? Like I'd
ever pull a cheap trick like
that!
I don't know about that.
Come on!
[gasps]
Damn it.
Wait, Doushu!
Going after Lord Sixth blindly
will only end badly for
whoever tries it.
Before we do that, we first
have to figure out a strategy
to get the bell.
But what are we going to do if
somebody else...
is able to get to Lord Sixth
before we can reach him, Sarada?
After all, there's only one
bell, remember?
Yeah, well.
Look, just worry about that
once we face off against him!
Boruto?!
Relax, guys! It's just an
exam!
If things don't work out now,
we'll just have to practice
some more.
Or take a make‐up
exam, that's all.
[chuckles] That's so like you,
Boruto.
Mitsuki!
Well, nevertheless, the fact
that ever since Lord Sixth told
everyone...
that the exam had started,
they've all gone off on their
own.
(Mitsuki) Even Shikadai's not
here.
It seems it may be the case
that we can't simply do
anything that we might choose.
(Inojin) You planted a GPS on
Lord Sixth! Nice job, Shikadai!
Yeah, well, it's just a drag
to use more energy than you
really have to.
I feel bad about ditching
Boruto, but right now, we've
gotta look out for ourselves.
My mom and dad are totally
gonna nag me if I don't make
it as a ninja.
That's why we really don't have
a choice but to do whatever it
takes to make this work.
The Ino‐Shika‐Cho goes back a
long time, huh?
[gasps] This is...
...Really close to here!
Partial Expansion Jutsu!
[gasps]
It's a bug!
Guess they got us.
This is bad.
Hm?
The Sensei wanted to separate
us all, and we fell for their
strategy to do just that.
Uh?
Hm?
Hey, hasn't it felt off for a
while now?
So you can sense it, too, huh?
Yes, you are right. I am
pretty sure I have seen that
giant tree before.
They're such easy pickings when
they're scattered. One genjutsu
done and complete! Hm?
[grunts]
You guys do know it's an
individual exam, right?
And you're only reminding us of
that because your objective is
to separate all of us.
Isn't that right?
At least in the beginning, it's
more effective if we all work
together...
in order to overcome the
obstacles that are standing in
our way.
Sensei, I know our mutual love
of sweets has nothing to do
with this exam.
But please let me be the one who
gets the bell, okay?
(Inojin) Cho‐Cho, now's not the
time!
[chuckles] So, I'm gonna have
to deal with the weaklings, is
that it?
I can definitely say that
they've underestimated me.
[grunts]
Anko Sensei's doing battle
over there.
We gotta find Lord Sixth and
soon.
Early bird gets the worm,
right?
Yep, that's right!
Huh?
[gasps]
[grunts]
Whoa, what happened here?!
[groans]
Early bird getting the worm or
not...
did all of you really believe
that you'd be able to get past
the three of us so easily?
And here comes the second
wave.
It's Big Brother Konohamaru!
It's "Sensei" right now, got
it?!
Hmph!
Hmph! [grunts]
[grunts]
[grunting]
You don't seem to understand
what Lord Sixth said to all of
you!
Ah! [grunts]
I'll show you what a real
battle is like.
[chuckles]
[gasps]
Hey! Wait, Boruto! Where do
you think you're going?!
Like I'm gonna wait! I don't
waste time on low‐scoring
questions or hard word problems!
(Boruto) Don't you know the
first thing about test‐taking
strategy?!
[grunts] Hey, are you saying
that I'm like some kind of
word problem?!
(Boruto) My only target's Old
Man Kakashi! He gets me the
passing score!
Ugh, that kid. He really does
know all the tricks of the
trade.
Well? Shouldn't the two of you
be going after him?
If going that way was the
correct thing to do...
then you wouldn't have allowed
Boruto to pass by you so easily.
Not bad. I knew that you'd
understand things better than
Boruto. But!
Class Rep! Let's do this!
Right!
So what exactly is your plan
to find Lord Sixth, Boruto?
I don't actually know it just
yet, but for right now...
(Boruto) I'm gonna search from
the top of the highest tree.
[gasps]
Wind Style: Breakthrough.
[inhale/exhale]
[grunts]
Lord Sixth is up ahead.
To pass, you'll have to take
me down first.
But it will be impossible for
you to reach him. And the
reason is because...
Lightning Style: Snake
Lightning!
Boruto, you go on ahead.
What?!
You can just leave this to me.
Wait, are you sure?
Yes. I'd like to battle
Sensei.
Okay, then! See ya!
Hey!
Let's do this, Shino Sensei.
All right, so where is Lord
Sixth?
(Kakashi) Hm. A rather carefree
and simplistic approach.
But searching from a high
vantage point isn't a bad idea.
Shadow Clone, huh?
Really?
[gasps]
All right, then, bring it on!
I'm ready, old man! I'm gonna
pass this exam right here and
now!
[chuckles]
Huh?
Hm? [chuckling]
(Cho‐Cho) [attacking yell]
[attacking hiss]
Snakes!
Uh?
[attacking hiss]
[grunts]
Special Jonin are good.
You're totally not just some
middle‐aged lady who loves
sweets.
You only realized that now? Goes
to show, you shouldn't take
middle‐aged ladies for granted!
Hmph! [attacking hiss]
Damn it! [grunts]
Shikadai!
Ahh! [grunts]
[attacking hiss]
[grunting]
Mud Wall!
[gasps]
Hmph!
When did all of you?
The genjutsu counter that you
taught us worked just perfectly,
so thank you for that.
There's nowhere to run.
I guess you'd call this a
reversal of fortune.
You know, I have to admit it,
you kids are pretty tough.
[licking lips]
(Mitsuki) I'm not letting you
get past me, Shino Sensei.
(Shino) How unusual. You've
never shown this much
determination before.
I thought you weren't
interested in exams like this.
That might've been true in the
past that is.
But now, thanks to Boruto, I
see some things differently.
(Mitsuki) At the very least...
I want to help Boruto pass this
test and to become a ninja
together with him.
[gasps]
One more thing, back then I
said there was nothing more
that I could learn from you.
Now I know that you are the
one I must challenge with
everything I've got.
It seems that I'm going to
need to become a bit more
serious right now.
Hmph.
[gasps]
[grunting]
Sharingan, huh? You've already
awakened it?
But it appears that you still
haven't mastered using it yet.
(Sumire) Summoning!
Huh?
[grunts]
[gasps]
What is this thing?!
Sarada!
Thanks.
(Konohamaru) Lightning Style!
Hm?
[grunting]
Please be careful, Nue!
That was practically nothing at
all compared to Konohamaru
Sensei's full power!
That's Nue, huh?
It's much smaller than the last
time I saw it, but it's still a
real handful.
With you having the Sharingan
and Nue too, you're more trouble
than I thought you'd be.
Shadow Clone Jutsu!
Shadow Clones, huh? Naruto
teach you that?
You think I'd ask him for
anything?!
[grunting]
Okay.
[grunts]
[attacking yell]
[grunting]
You used Substitution to
switch with my clone?!
You and your father really are
so similar.
Oh no we're not!
Hmph!
[grunting]
[frustrated grunt]
I'm surprised. You're pretty
good.
[chuckles]
[heavy breathing]
Didn't think you'd get this
far. I have to say, you truly
are his son.
[chuckles] Sure, you may say
that.
But I know that you
still have some insects that
you haven't even used yet.
Oh, well. In any event, I
don't really care either way.
I can't very well kill one of
my own students, now, can I?
But there is still more to
this exam, so why don't you go
on ahead.
Right.
Although, there may not even be
a point, since Boruto might have
already settled everything.
(Shino) Not possible.
The reason is because Lord
Sixth is not as lenient as I
am.
[heavy breathing]
To get this far even before
you've graduated from the
Academy.
Honestly, even in my eyes,
you're a cut above the rest of
your fellow students.
(Kakashi) You're a real genius.
[chuckles] So you finally get
it, huh?
(Kakashi) But it's no good.
[gasps]
You still aren't suited to
become a ninja.
What?!
I say that because you lack a
decisive element.
[chuckles] I wondered what you
were gonna say.
But, I don't need to hear yet
another lecture, ya know.
So anyway.
(Boruto) If I take that bell
from you, I pass, right?
Of course.
Let's go!
Yeah!
Wind Style! Gale Palm!
[grunts] Take this!
Lethal!
Boruto!
Stream!
[gasps]
[grunts]
[chuckles]
The bell's mine!
[grunts] Not this again!
[gasps]
(Kakashi) So you hid the real
you underground and lured me out
with clones.
Hm?
(Kakashi) You really did almost
get the bell.
[grunts]
[grunts] Ow, ow, owww!
(Kakashi) Taijutsu, ninjutsu,
you excel all around. You're a
cut above the rest.
The skills you have are those
of a genin or even a chunin.
[grunts]
And that's the reason why this
is going to be the end of the
line for you.
Damn it!
(Kakashi) It's probably
impossible for someone...
who doesn't have the motivation
to become a ninja.
(Boruto) How would you even know
anything about me?!
(Kakashi) Oh, I know plenty.
This year's Academy students are
horrible.
They underestimate what a ninja
is.
I can only assume that's
because of your influence on
them.
(Boruto) No way?! Me?!
(Kakashi) Next time on Boruto
Naruto Next Generations: "A
Shinobi's Resolve."
There's just no way that I can
acknowledge this group as
ninja.